readme.md, before:

# Console2Ai - PowerShell AI Assistant

[![PowerShell Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/PowerShell-5.1%2B%20%7C%207%2B-blue.svg)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)

Console2Ai is a PowerShell script that captures your console buffer content and sends it to an AI assistant. It uses [`aichat`](https://github.com/sigoden/aichat) as the backend for AI processing.

## Core Functionality

![Demo GIF](Promo/Gif_Demo.gif)


-   **Console Buffer to AI Prompt:** The main feature is capturing text from your PowerShell console buffer (the last N lines, you specify, 15 by default) and sending it directly to the AI as part of the prompt. This provides context from your recent commands and their output.
-   **Alt+C Hotkey:** Quick access to AI command suggestion with a simple keyboard shortcut. (What you typed as prompt will be REPLACED with ready to press enter command)
-   **Alt+S Hotkey:** Instantly start a conversational AI session with your console history and current query.
-   **Context Control:** Specify how many lines of console history (1-1999) to include in the AI prompt. Simply type a number before prompt and let it go! like "50 explain the last few commands and suggest an optimization" - number will be automatically picked up and parsed into console history line count.
-   **Session Logging:** Save your recent console lines to a text file for reference.

When you press Alt+C, the script analyzes your current input line, captures the specified number of console history lines, and sends everything to `aichat`. The AI response then replaces your current input line in the console.
Aichat is free and open source application.

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following:

1.  **PowerShell:** Version 5.1 or higher. PowerShell 7+ is recommended for the best `PSReadLine` experience.
2.  **`aichat` by sigoden:** This is the AI chat client Console2Ai uses.
    -   **Installation:** Visit the [`aichat` GitHub releases page](https://github.com/sigoden/aichat/releases) and download the appropriate binary for your operating system (e.g., `aichat-*-windows-x86_64.exe`).
    -   **Link to repo if you need help:** [https://github.com/sigoden/aichat](https://github.com/sigoden/aichat)

## 🛠️ Installation & Configuration

Follow these steps to get Console2Ai up and running:

1.  **Install and Configure `aichat`**
    a.  **Download `aichat`:**
        Grab the latest release from [here](https://github.com/sigoden/aichat/releases). For Windows, you'll likely want the `...windows-x86_64.exe` file.

    b.  **Add `aichat` to your PATH:**
        For Console2Ai to find `aichat.exe`, it needs to be in your system's PATH.
        -   Create a dedicated folder for CLI tools, e.g., `C:\Tools\bin`
        -   Rename the downloaded `aichat` executable to `aichat.exe` and move it to this folder.
        -   Add this folder to your PATH. You can do this via PowerShell:

**For User PATH :**

```powershell
$CurrentUserPath = [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("Path", "User")
$AichatPath = "C:\Tools\bin" # Change this to your actual folder
if (-not ($CurrentUserPath -split ';' -contains $AichatPath)) {
    [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("Path", "$CurrentUserPath;$AichatPath", "User")
    Write-Host "Added '$AichatPath' to User PATH. Please restart PowerShell."
} else {
    Write-Host "'$AichatPath' is already in User PATH."
}
```

**For System PATH (requires Admin, affects all users):**



```powershell
$SystemPath = [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("Path", "Machine")
$AichatPath = "C:\Tools\bin" # Change this to your actual folder
if (-not ($SystemPath -split ';' -contains $AichatPath)) {
    [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("Path", "$SystemPath;$AichatPath", "Machine")
    Write-Host "Added '$AichatPath' to System PATH. Please restart PowerShell."
} else {
    Write-Host "'$AichatPath' is already in System PATH."
}
```

**Verify:** Open a *new* PowerShell terminal and type `aichat --version`. You should see the version information.

**c. Configure `aichat` Model & API Key:**
        `aichat` needs to know which AI model to use and requires an API key for that service (e.g., OpenAI, OpenRouter, Ollama, Gemini, etc.).
        Follow the detailed configuration instructions on the [aichat configuration example](https://github.com/sigoden/aichat/blob/main/config.example.yaml).
        Create or edit a `config.yaml` file. For Windows, this file is located at: `C:\Users\Username\AppData\Roaming\aichat\config.yaml` (replace `Username` with your Windows username).
        You can quickly open this folder by typing `explorer %APPDATA%\aichat` in PowerShell.
        You don't need to have everything, here is my config that works:
        Example configuration for OpenRouter with Claude:
        
        model: openrouter:anthropic/claude-3.7-sonnet
        clients:
        - type: openai-compatible
          name: openrouter
          api_base: https://openrouter.ai/api/v1
          api_key: sk-or-v1-a96_YOUR_API_KEY
        
Test `aichat` from your terminal after configuration:

        aichat "What is PowerShell?"
        
This will make sure the base application for this script is working.

2.  **Install `Console2Ai.ps1`**
    1.  Download `Console2Ai.ps1` from this repository and place it in a convenient folder (e.g., `C:\Users\YourUser\Documents\PowerShell\Scripts\Console2Ai.ps1` or `C:\Scripts\Console2Ai.ps1`).

    2.  Open your PowerShell profile for editing:
        ```powershell
        notepad $PROFILE
        ```

    3.  Copy and paste the following snippet into your profile (adjust the path as needed):
        ```powershell
        # Import-Module PSReadLine  # Uncomment if needed
        . C:\Users\YourUser\Documents\PowerShell\Scripts\Console2Ai.ps1  # Adjust path if needed
        ```

    4.  Save the profile and **restart PowerShell**.

## 🚀 How to Use Console2Ai

Once installed, you have a few ways to interact with Console2Ai:

1.  **The `Alt+C` Hotkey (Command Suggestion)** 🔥
    This is the quickest way to get AI assistance for command suggestions!

    a.  **Standard Query:**
        Type your question, command fragment, or error message into the PowerShell prompt.

        
        PS C:\> Get-ChildItem -Path C:\NonExistentFolder -Recurse # You see an error after this
        PS C:\> How do I handle 'cannot find path' errors in Get-ChildItem? # Now press Alt+C
        Console2Ai will capture the last 15 lines of console history (by default) plus your typed query ("How do I handle..."). It will then show a status message like:        
        ⌛ Console2Ai (Cmd): Asking AI about 'How do I handle 'cannot find path' errors in Get-ChildItem?' (context: 15 lines)...
        


    It will send this to `aichat`, and replace your query with the AI's suggested command or explanation.

    b.  **Specify Line Count for History:** ✨
        If you want to provide more or less context from your console history:
        -   Start your typed line with a number (1-1999) followed by a space, then your query.

            
             ... lots of previous output ...
            PS C:\> 50 explain the last few commands and suggest an optimization # Press Alt+C
            
    Console2Ai will capture the last 50 lines of history along with your query.
    If you only type a number (e.g., `30`) and press `Alt+C`, it will use that many lines of history and a generic prompt for the AI.

2.  **The `Alt+S` Hotkey (Conversational Chat)** 💬
    Start a conversational AI session with your console history as context and your current query. Unlike Alt+C, Alt+S is focused on back-and-forth conversation, not just command suggestions.

    -   **How it works:**
        -   Type your question or message into the PowerShell prompt.
        -   Press `Alt+S`.
        -   Console2Ai will capture the last 15 lines of console history (by default) plus your typed query, then open a conversational AI session using `aichat`.
        -   The AI will reply conversationally, focusing on explanations, troubleshooting, or general answers (not just commands).
    -   **Example Usage:**
        -   To ask why your script is running slowly, type your query and press `Alt+S`:
            ```powershell
            PS C:\> from this dir, which files are needed for funciton and which are temporary files? # Press Alt+S
            ```
            This will start a response from AI including recent console history as context.
        -   To specify a different number of history lines (e.g., 40) works with both Alt+C and Alt+S:
            ```powershell
            PS C:\> 40 Delete just all temporary config files from this folder # Press Alt+C
    -   Under the hood, Alt+S calls the `Invoke-Console2AiConversation` function. And Alt+C calls `Invoke-AIConsoleHelp` function.

3.  **Using the PowerShell Functions** ⚙️
    Console2Ai also provides standard PowerShell functions if you prefer:

    a.  **`Invoke-AIConsoleHelp`**
        Manually trigger AI assistance.

        
        # Get help based on the last 15 lines of console history
        Invoke-AIConsoleHelp

        # Get help with more context and a specific prompt
        Invoke-AIConsoleHelp -LinesToCapture 25 -UserPrompt "What does this error mean and how to fix it?"
        

    b.  **`Invoke-Console2AiConversation`**
        Manually start a conversational AI session (same as Alt+S):
        
        Invoke-Console2AiConversation -UserQuery "Explain this error" -LinesToCapture 20
        

    c.  **`Save-ConsoleHistoryLog`** 💾
        Save recent console output to a file.
        
        # Save the last 15 lines to .\log.txt
        Save-ConsoleHistoryLog

        # Save the last 30 lines to a custom file
        Save-ConsoleHistoryLog -LinesToCapture 30 -LogFilePath "C:\temp\session_details.txt"
        

4.  **Getting Help Within PowerShell** ❓
    You can use PowerShell's built-in help system:
    
        Get-Help Invoke-AIConsoleHelp -Full
        Get-Help Invoke-Console2AiConversation -Full
        Get-Help Save-ConsoleHistoryLog -Full
    

## 🔧 Customization (Optional)

You can modify `Console2Ai.ps1` directly to change:

-   **`$Global:Console2Ai_AIChatExecutable`**: If `aichat.exe` is named differently or you want to use a full path.
-   **`$Global:Console2Ai_CommandMode_AIPromptInstruction`**: The default instruction template sent to the AI for Alt+C (command suggestion).
-   **`$Global:Console2Ai_ConversationMode_AIPromptInstruction`**: The default instruction template sent to the AI for Alt+S (conversational chat).
-   **`$Global:Console2Ai_MaxLinesForHotkeyParse`**: The maximum number of console history lines you can specify for Alt+C/Alt+S hotkeys (default: 1999). Change this if you want to allow more or fewer lines to be parsed from the prompt.

## Troubleshooting

### Alt+C doesn't work

-   Ensure PSReadLine module is loaded. (It usually is by default in modern PowerShell).
-   Check your PowerShell profile (`$PROFILE`) to ensure `Console2Ai.ps1` is being dot-sourced correctly and after PSReadLine might be imported.
-   No other Alt+C binding is overriding it.

### AI Errors (❌ Console2Ai AI Error...)

-   Verify `aichat.exe` is in your PATH and working (`aichat --version`).
-   Check your `aichat` configuration (`%APPDATA%\aichat\config.yaml`). Is the model correct? Is your API key valid and correctly configured (e.g., `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable)?
-   Check your internet connection.

### "No console history was captured"

-   This can happen if the console buffer is empty or very short (e.g., right after `Clear-Host` or `cls`). The functions will still try to work with any typed user prompt.

## License

Do whatever you want just mention me

Commit message:

docs: add Chrome extension promo section to readme

readme.md, after:

# Console2Ai - PowerShell AI Assistant

[![PowerShell Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/PowerShell-5.1%2B%20%7C%207%2B-blue.svg)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)

Console2Ai is a PowerShell script that captures your console buffer content and sends it to an AI assistant. It uses [`aichat`](https://github.com/sigoden/aichat) as the backend for AI processing.

## Core Functionality

![Demo GIF](Promo/Gif_Demo.gif)


-   **Console Buffer to AI Prompt:** The main feature is capturing text from your PowerShell console buffer (the last N lines, you specify, 15 by default) and sending it directly to the AI as part of the prompt. This provides context from your recent commands and their output.
-   **Alt+C Hotkey:** Quick access to AI command suggestion with a simple keyboard shortcut. (What you typed as prompt will be REPLACED with ready to press enter command)
-   **Alt+S Hotkey:** Instantly start a conversational AI session with your console history and current query.
-   **Context Control:** Specify how many lines of console history (1-1999) to include in the AI prompt. Simply type a number before prompt and let it go! like "50 explain the last few commands and suggest an optimization" - number will be automatically picked up and parsed into console history line count.
-   **Session Logging:** Save your recent console lines to a text file for reference.

When you press Alt+C, the script analyzes your current input line, captures the specified number of console history lines, and sends everything to `aichat`. The AI response then replaces your current input line in the console.
Aichat is free and open source application.

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following:

1.  **PowerShell:** Version 5.1 or higher. PowerShell 7+ is recommended for the best `PSReadLine` experience.
2.  **`aichat` by sigoden:** This is the AI chat client Console2Ai uses.
    -   **Installation:** Visit the [`aichat` GitHub releases page](https://github.com/sigoden/aichat/releases) and download the appropriate binary for your operating system (e.g., `aichat-*-windows-x86_64.exe`).
    -   **Link to repo if you need help:** [https://github.com/sigoden/aichat](https://github.com/sigoden/aichat)

## 🛠️ Installation & Configuration

Follow these steps to get Console2Ai up and running:

1.  **Install and Configure `aichat`**
    a.  **Download `aichat`:**
        Grab the latest release from [here](https://github.com/sigoden/aichat/releases). For Windows, you'll likely want the `...windows-x86_64.exe` file.

    b.  **Add `aichat` to your PATH:**
        For Console2Ai to find `aichat.exe`, it needs to be in your system's PATH.
        -   Create a dedicated folder for CLI tools, e.g., `C:\Tools\bin`
        -   Rename the downloaded `aichat` executable to `aichat.exe` and move it to this folder.
        -   Add this folder to your PATH. You can do this via PowerShell:

**For User PATH :**

```powershell
$CurrentUserPath = [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("Path", "User")
$AichatPath = "C:\Tools\bin" # Change this to your actual folder
if (-not ($CurrentUserPath -split ';' -contains $AichatPath)) {
    [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("Path", "$CurrentUserPath;$AichatPath", "User")
    Write-Host "Added '$AichatPath' to User PATH. Please restart PowerShell."
} else {
    Write-Host "'$AichatPath' is already in User PATH."
}
```

**For System PATH (requires Admin, affects all users):**



```powershell
$SystemPath = [System.Environment]::GetEnvironmentVariable("Path", "Machine")
$AichatPath = "C:\Tools\bin" # Change this to your actual folder
if (-not ($SystemPath -split ';' -contains $AichatPath)) {
    [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("Path", "$SystemPath;$AichatPath", "Machine")
    Write-Host "Added '$AichatPath' to System PATH. Please restart PowerShell."
} else {
    Write-Host "'$AichatPath' is already in System PATH."
}
```

**Verify:** Open a *new* PowerShell terminal and type `aichat --version`. You should see the version information.

**c. Configure `aichat` Model & API Key:**
        `aichat` needs to know which AI model to use and requires an API key for that service (e.g., OpenAI, OpenRouter, Ollama, Gemini, etc.).
        Follow the detailed configuration instructions on the [aichat configuration example](https://github.com/sigoden/aichat/blob/main/config.example.yaml).
        Create or edit a `config.yaml` file. For Windows, this file is located at: `C:\Users\Username\AppData\Roaming\aichat\config.yaml` (replace `Username` with your Windows username).
        You can quickly open this folder by typing `explorer %APPDATA%\aichat` in PowerShell.
        You don't need to have everything, here is my config that works:
        Example configuration for OpenRouter with Claude:
        
        model: openrouter:anthropic/claude-3.7-sonnet
        clients:
        - type: openai-compatible
          name: openrouter
          api_base: https://openrouter.ai/api/v1
          api_key: sk-or-v1-a96_YOUR_API_KEY
        
Test `aichat` from your terminal after configuration:

        aichat "What is PowerShell?"
        
This will make sure the base application for this script is working.

2.  **Install `Console2Ai.ps1`**
    1.  Download `Console2Ai.ps1` from this repository and place it in a convenient folder (e.g., `C:\Users\YourUser\Documents\PowerShell\Scripts\Console2Ai.ps1` or `C:\Scripts\Console2Ai.ps1`).

    2.  Open your PowerShell profile for editing:
        ```powershell
        notepad $PROFILE
        ```

    3.  Copy and paste the following snippet into your profile (adjust the path as needed):
        ```powershell
        # Import-Module PSReadLine  # Uncomment if needed
        . C:\Users\YourUser\Documents\PowerShell\Scripts\Console2Ai.ps1  # Adjust path if needed
        ```

    4.  Save the profile and **restart PowerShell**.

## 🚀 How to Use Console2Ai

Once installed, you have a few ways to interact with Console2Ai:

1.  **The `Alt+C` Hotkey (Command Suggestion)** 🔥
    This is the quickest way to get AI assistance for command suggestions!

    a.  **Standard Query:**
        Type your question, command fragment, or error message into the PowerShell prompt.

        
        PS C:\> Get-ChildItem -Path C:\NonExistentFolder -Recurse # You see an error after this
        PS C:\> How do I handle 'cannot find path' errors in Get-ChildItem? # Now press Alt+C
        Console2Ai will capture the last 15 lines of console history (by default) plus your typed query ("How do I handle..."). It will then show a status message like:        
        ⌛ Console2Ai (Cmd): Asking AI about 'How do I handle 'cannot find path' errors in Get-ChildItem?' (context: 15 lines)...
        


    It will send this to `aichat`, and replace your query with the AI's suggested command or explanation.

    b.  **Specify Line Count for History:** ✨
        If you want to provide more or less context from your console history:
        -   Start your typed line with a number (1-1999) followed by a space, then your query.

            
             ... lots of previous output ...
            PS C:\> 50 explain the last few commands and suggest an optimization # Press Alt+C
            
    Console2Ai will capture the last 50 lines of history along with your query.
    If you only type a number (e.g., `30`) and press `Alt+C`, it will use that many lines of history and a generic prompt for the AI.

2.  **The `Alt+S` Hotkey (Conversational Chat)** 💬
    Start a conversational AI session with your console history as context and your current query. Unlike Alt+C, Alt+S is focused on back-and-forth conversation, not just command suggestions.

    -   **How it works:**
        -   Type your question or message into the PowerShell prompt.
        -   Press `Alt+S`.
        -   Console2Ai will capture the last 15 lines of console history (by default) plus your typed query, then open a conversational AI session using `aichat`.
        -   The AI will reply conversationally, focusing on explanations, troubleshooting, or general answers (not just commands).
    -   **Example Usage:**
        -   To ask why your script is running slowly, type your query and press `Alt+S`:
            ```powershell
            PS C:\> from this dir, which files are needed for funciton and which are temporary files? # Press Alt+S
            ```
            This will start a response from AI including recent console history as context.
        -   To specify a different number of history lines (e.g., 40) works with both Alt+C and Alt+S:
            ```powershell
            PS C:\> 40 Delete just all temporary config files from this folder # Press Alt+C
    -   Under the hood, Alt+S calls the `Invoke-Console2AiConversation` function. And Alt+C calls `Invoke-AIConsoleHelp` function.

3.  **Using the PowerShell Functions** ⚙️
    Console2Ai also provides standard PowerShell functions if you prefer:

    a.  **`Invoke-AIConsoleHelp`**
        Manually trigger AI assistance.

        
        # Get help based on the last 15 lines of console history
        Invoke-AIConsoleHelp

        # Get help with more context and a specific prompt
        Invoke-AIConsoleHelp -LinesToCapture 25 -UserPrompt "What does this error mean and how to fix it?"
        

    b.  **`Invoke-Console2AiConversation`**
        Manually start a conversational AI session (same as Alt+S):
        
        Invoke-Console2AiConversation -UserQuery "Explain this error" -LinesToCapture 20
        

    c.  **`Save-ConsoleHistoryLog`** 💾
        Save recent console output to a file.
        
        # Save the last 15 lines to .\log.txt
        Save-ConsoleHistoryLog

        # Save the last 30 lines to a custom file
        Save-ConsoleHistoryLog -LinesToCapture 30 -LogFilePath "C:\temp\session_details.txt"
        

4.  **Getting Help Within PowerShell** ❓
    You can use PowerShell's built-in help system:
    
        Get-Help Invoke-AIConsoleHelp -Full
        Get-Help Invoke-Console2AiConversation -Full
        Get-Help Save-ConsoleHistoryLog -Full
    

## 🔧 Customization (Optional)

You can modify `Console2Ai.ps1` directly to change:

-   **`$Global:Console2Ai_AIChatExecutable`**: If `aichat.exe` is named differently or you want to use a full path.
-   **`$Global:Console2Ai_CommandMode_AIPromptInstruction`**: The default instruction template sent to the AI for Alt+C (command suggestion).
-   **`$Global:Console2Ai_ConversationMode_AIPromptInstruction`**: The default instruction template sent to the AI for Alt+S (conversational chat).
-   **`$Global:Console2Ai_MaxLinesForHotkeyParse`**: The maximum number of console history lines you can specify for Alt+C/Alt+S hotkeys (default: 1999). Change this if you want to allow more or fewer lines to be parsed from the prompt.

## Troubleshooting

### Alt+C doesn't work

-   Ensure PSReadLine module is loaded. (It usually is by default in modern PowerShell).
-   Check your PowerShell profile (`$PROFILE`) to ensure `Console2Ai.ps1` is being dot-sourced correctly and after PSReadLine might be imported.
-   No other Alt+C binding is overriding it.

### AI Errors (❌ Console2Ai AI Error...)

-   Verify `aichat.exe` is in your PATH and working (`aichat --version`).
-   Check your `aichat` configuration (`%APPDATA%\aichat\config.yaml`). Is the model correct? Is your API key valid and correctly configured (e.g., `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable)?
-   Check your internet connection.

### "No console history was captured"

-   This can happen if the console buffer is empty or very short (e.g., right after `Clear-Host` or `cls`). The functions will still try to work with any typed user prompt.

## License

Do whatever you want just mention me if you can

## Promo (My other stuff!)
Check out my Free Extension for Web AI chats to quickly reuse your prompts:

[![Check out my Free Extension for Web AI chats to quickly reuse your prompts](https://github.com/MaxITService/ChatGPT-Quick-Buttons-for-your-text/raw/master/Promo/promo440_280.png)](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/oneclickprompts/iiofmimaakhhoiablomgcjpilebnndbf?authuser=1)

[OneClickPrompts on Chrome Web Store](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/oneclickprompts/iiofmimaakhhoiablomgcjpilebnndbf?authuser=1)

[it is open source](https://github.com/MaxITService/ChatGPT-Quick-Buttons-for-your-text)
